The socio-cultural modernization of modern Kazakhstan would not be
successful without taking into account the spiritual traditions that we inherited
from our ancestors. Al-Farabi’s works reflected the eternal desire of humankind for
perfection and happiness. The scientific and innovative project for the development
of educational activity at Al-Farabi Kazakh National University known as &quot;Al-
Farabi University’s Smart City&quot; was designed to translate into reality the ideals of
the virtuous city of al-Farabi. This project, initiated by the rector of al-Farabi,
KazNU academician G. Mutanov, is based on the concept of the virtuous city of al-
Farabi.
Universities have long been carrying out a crucial task - they not only pass
on the necessary knowledge to young people, but also cultivate high moral ideals
in them, and form worthy citizens of their country from them. The modern world
has entered a new round of evolutionary development. This is due to the
widespread introduction of “smart” technologies in life. A growing number of
universities around the world are implementing separate programs for the development of smart education, smart libraries, smart campuses, etc. During the
implementation of these programs, a discrepancy in the pace of technological
development to the level of the spiritual world of man has been exposed. On the
one hand, information technologies create comfortable living and working
conditions, expand the boundaries of a person’s creative expression and provide
unprecedented opportunities for communication with the world; on the other hand,
in most smart projects, a one-sided approach dominates, which does not take into
account the inner spiritual and moral world of the person.
The scientific and innovative project “Al-Farabi University’s Smart Sity” is
based on universal spiritual values and cooperation in achieving universal
happiness. Thanks to this project, al-Farabi KazNU is becoming a new breed of
university, in which two main components - technological and spiritual-moral
platforms are simultaneously and harmoniously developed.
Emphasizing the role of universities in sustainable development, former
Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon urged universities to use all
their educational and scientific potential to ensure the favorable development of
human civilization. In 2014, al-Farabi Kazakh National University was entrusted
with the highest honor to lead the global hub “United Nation Academic Impact”.
The work of KazNU was recognized with distinction at the United Nations, and the
effective implementation of the mission assigned to the university to solve the
global problems of humankind was noted. Subsequently, it was decided to extend
the authority of al-Farabi KazNU until 2020 and this is a great achievement of our
university in managing a world-class project, evidence of high trust and
recognition from the international community.